# Academic Workload Planning Manager

## Table of Contents

- Purpose of the Web Application
- Architecture of the Web Application
- How to Launch the Web Application
- Unit Tests
- System Tests
- Commit Logs
- License
- Contributors

## Purpose of the Web Application

This IT Capstone Project is designed to provide a comprehensive platform for academic institutions to allocate, manage, and oversee academic workloads. The platform promotes a fair and open work allocation process and supports informed workload planning decisions.

## Architecture of the Web Application

- Client side: A combination of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript - create interactive user interfaces and implements responsive design to ensure compatibility across various devices.
- Server side: Flask framework in Python - implement various routes to handle different user requests, including data retrieval, processing, and storage.
- Database: SQLite, with the use of SQLAlchemy as an ORM (Object Relational Mapper) to interact with the underlying database. The database structure consists of multiple tables such as `user`, `work`, and `workload_allocation` to store and manage workload allocation data.

## How to Launch the Web Application

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yylocky/CITS5206-Group3.git
```

2. Set the environment

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
export FLASK_APP=app.py
pip install -r requirements.txt

```

3. Initialise the database

```bash
flask db init
flask db migrate
flask db upgrade
```

Note: We have set a test database `app.db` in the repository. If you wish to use it, you can skip the above steps.

4. Run the Flask application

```bash
flask run
```

5. Enjoy!

Open your preferred web browser and navigate to the localhost address displayed in your terminal.

## Unit Tests

Unit tests ensure individual units of the source code (e.g., functions and methods) work as intended. We recommend running the unit tests after any major changes to the codebase. [Details to be provided in Deliverable 3]

## System Tests

System tests evaluate the system's compliance with specified requirements. They provide end-to-end testing solutions to ensure the entire application functions correctly. [Details to be provided in Deliverable 3]

## Commit Logs

We maintain a detailed log of all commits in the commit_log.txt file. This log can be generated by running:

```bash
git log --all --decorate --graph
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license.  For detailed information, please refer to the LICENSE file in the repository.

## Contributors

- Changwu Wu (23160199)
- Michael Wang (21240894)
- Warren Wang (23680549)
- Wendy Wang (23454213)
- Yinyin Wu (23415578)
- Kyle Leung (23601964)
